Jimmy California's or the holidays this
present gonna be in California for the
holidays well we're here for Christmas
of course the present right things they
go on but then it will go back out for
in our traditional New Year's Eve rings
someone stole what the quarter is we had
a drawing and it starts over there right
now and then it moves to the left if
we're satisfied we have our jury sitting
over there you know I get there's like
Johnson later when we country boys okay
that's a that's a former wall item right
there to the office I had put tick I had
to put Ted Stevens in his place he tried
to make it out of that that was an
Alaska bear and I know that was there
telling me the most wonderful stories of
a miss Reagan's mother the other day
when they work together in Chicago she
was I don't think there was a policeman
or a fireman in Chicago that didn't know
her she was once chosen kind of the
woman of the year because of her
participation in all kinds of things
right if we've got a minute here I will
never forget the day that Nancy and I
pulled in a morning and a blizzard the
night train from New York in discard on
the train was part way down from the
station and not a redcap in sight and
the porters put all the luggage out the
whole length the Train and there we were
trying to find our luggage all of this
and I looked up and here came her mother
Armand armed with two red caps and as
she got closer you could hear that she
knew them she was saying oh your
daughter Ellen where is she now in
school and so forth and said oh my son
and daughter would you mind helping me
he was kind of salty I gather
oh she could be that way yes a little
intolerant of people that tried to put
on airs heard the story mister president
of the new temporary Marion Chicago
Mayor Sawyer they had a wonderful
interview yesterday one of those things
in radio unfortunately for us it was
strictly a radio interview that it's not
all that unusual in Chicago of course
but it's one of the local newspaper
reporters counted up and yes
twenty-seven blood relatives on the
payroll on the city payroll and the
intrepid reporter went out to the house
and asked this lady expecting they had
some trouble but she was very refreshing
the whole interview was a you know maybe
20 seconds in which he said is your name
so-and-so yes are you related to Sawyer
yes do you work the city yes how much do
you make $36,000 a year did he get you
the job well of course she said if he
can't give jobs to his family what good
is being a council
[Laughter]
mr. president by the luck of the draw I
have the first question this evening
next week Mikhail Gorbachev will be in
Washington the two of you are expected
to sign an agreement for the elimination
of all medium-range nuclear missiles in
the world even though this week you're
accusing the Soviets of violating the
anti-ballistic missile treaty and even
though a lot of people say that that
will leave the Soviets in a superior
position in Europe because they have
more men more tanks more helicopters now
if this for another president making
this deal wouldn't the old Ronald Reagan
be the first to speak out against it no
because I think this deal is different
than anything that's ever been attempted
before in arms negotiations between our
two countries for one thing this is the
first Russian leader or Soviet leader I
should say that has ever expressed a
willingness to eliminate weapons they
already have but as to whether this
changes the military balance you're
absolutely right
that in conventional weapons tanks
artillery and so forth the Soviet Union
does have tremendous advantage over the
NATO countries and over the United
States as a member of NATO but there are
still thousands and thousands of nuclear
weapons tactical weapons battlefield
weapons that can be fired from artillery
and so forth that still exist these
weapons that are disappearing were
weapons that if the Soviet Union used
them they wouldn't be hitting military
targets they would be hitting the
capital cities of all of Europe and when
it and if it comes to the point of us
negotiating as I hope it does one day on
those battlefield tactical weapons then
conventional weapons must be negotiated
as well there would be no point then in
removing those weapons which now do give
us a balance in counter their their
conventional superiority and leaving
them then with that other superiority
both would have to be but one eliminated
and the other brought down to the parity
and we're not anywhere near facing those
yet we're facing the terror weapons
first these that we want to eliminate
totally and that I asked for that in
1981 and the next step the so called
start agreement where we are talking of
starting with eliminating 50% of the
intercontinental ballistic missiles
those are the destabilizing weapons that
bring terror to the world those are the
weapons that threaten us with mutual
destruction if they're ever loosed
someone pushes a button and within 30
minutes there is devastation and horror
in in our country or if we've done it to
them in their country and that would be
the next step there's a president on
this treaty you've not even signed on
the dotted line and yet five of the
Republican presidential candidates have
deserted you the Conservatives the right
wing of your party are after your scalp
my question is if you were not a
lame-duck president with this INF treaty
sail through the Senate well I hope it's
going to sail through anyway I think
that the objections that we're hearing
and yes from some of our own you might
say allies and own forces there based on
a lack of knowledge as to what this
treaty contains and particularly are
they ignorant of the advances that have
been made in verification no treaty
before has ever been based on as much
verification and on-site inspection and
so forth as this one these are this is
what has been holding it up for so long
until we finally got over that hurdle
and I think that this thing hinges
something on the first question also
that they think that somehow this is
leaving the Soviet Union with its
superiority and conventional weapons and
I've just explained that it isn't but
also I think we have to we have to look
at the very fact that we have obtained
apparently their agreement to a treaty
in which they're destroying four times
as many nuclear missiles or warheads as
we are
mr. president Winston Churchill once
said that trying to maintain a good
relationship with the Communists was not
unlike trying to woo a crocodile that
when it opened its mouth
you never could be quite certain whether
it was trying to smile or eat you up
Americans respect you love you and
pulling for you but they're concerned
that perhaps you are going to or already
have allowed Gorbachev to eat you and us
up we have a new CBS News New York Times
poll out tonight and it indicates that
the majority of those poll 45% largest
number are convinced that you'll make
too many compromises to go over Charles
the question is what assurances can you
give how can you convince Americans that
you have the command of the kind of
complex information that's necessary
here not to have this young energetic
intelligent tough Marxist Leninist each
you and us up well I haven't changed
from the time when I made a speech about
an evil empire and I think I could sum
up my my own position on this with the
recitation of a very brief Russian
proverb Dovie I know Pro via it means
trust but verify and there would be no
way that I could sign a treaty just to
be signing a treaty and with my fingers
crossed that everything was all right
this is why it is hinged on arriving at
solid verification measures and their
agreement to them and I think that in
the past there has been a willingness on
some to just to look on the bright side
and accept a treaty so that they could
say look we've signed a treaty whether
the treaty worked or whether it
benefited us or not and there's no way
that I could do that and I assure the
people know that that will never happen
that's why I walked out of Reykjavik in
Reykjavik we had come to an agreement on
literally totaled nuclear disarmament
except that at the very last minute they
said it could only take place if we gave
up SDI that's when I came home sort of
information this is not a follow-up but
did I understand you correctly to say
that you have not changed your mind not
changed your mind from the time you
described the Soviet Union as the quote
evil empire the Soviet Union has back
through the years he made it plain and
certainly declared leader after leader
is declared his pledge that they would
observe the Marxian concept of
expansionism that the future lay in a
one world communist state all right we
now have a leader that is apparently
willing to say or in a way has never
made that claim but it's willing to say
that he's prepared to live with other
philosophies in other countries but
again they say that doesn't mean that we
take his word for that and sign a treaty
he alone may not be able to deliver on
something of that kind will sign a
treaty as I've repeatedly said here when
we are sure that that treaty is as
beneficial to us as it is to them and I
would like to call your attention to the
fact that 1981 when I proposed the zero
option of these intermediate weapons
they indignantly walked out of the
negotiations and said they wouldn't be
back well they came back and as a matter
of fact they came back and announced a
zero zero as their own idea now I think
that
I think that some of the people who are
objecting the most and just refusing
even to accede to the idea of ever
getting under any understanding whether
they realize it or not those people
basically down in their deepest thoughts
have accepted that war is inevitable and
that there must come to be a war between
the two superpowers well I think as long
as you've got a chance to strive for
peace you strive for peace but you don't
have peace and surrender and there's no
way that we're going to surrender no way
that we're going to sign a treaty that
is not as I say to the benefit of all of
us mr. president in something of the
same vein of a mr. Gorbachev I think all
our polls this week may show the same
thing the ABC news/washington post poll
shows surprisingly that mr. Gorbachev
favorable rating in this country is only
four percent lower than your own he's
made a strong impression the other day
when you were asked about difficulties
with him you turn to decide was
something of a joke you said you'd
played with Errol Flynn can you give us
a more serious assessment now mr.
Gorbachev and how tough he is to do
business with well you you or all of you
in reporting my writing about Errol
Flynn sort of skipped over what the
young man had asked me he had made it
out that you'd all build up mr.
Gorbachev to the place that didn't I
have some concern about sort of standing
up there alongside him and being well
he'd be the scene stealer and so forth
and that's when I couldn't help but say
I I
co-starred with Errol Flynn and so
that's all that that was about but with
regard to those poll figures and polls I
have to say you have to know what
questions are asked and how they're
being asked because our doctor Wirthlin
that I think is finally the finest and
on the record pollster in the nation has
just more recently taken up
and he found that 56% of the people in
America support the the treaty and SDI
and then when they heard his interview
and him admitting that they too were
working on an SDI that figure went up to
71 percent of the American people want
strategic initiative defense initiative
so mr. president we learned again this
week that Mikhail Gorbachev has a very
hard line view about human rights in his
country and a very distorted view about
the human rights equation in this
country he seems not to understand
firsthand the depth of feeling in
America and even in his own country
about the need for people to have
freedom to come and go as they please to
live in dignity could you not bring that
feeling to him by inviting some
refuseniks to the state dinner next week
so that when he is your guest he can
meet them first end well I'm sure that
they're going to be a number of people
at that dinner who have different views
from him
whether that's the place though for what
you're suggesting I don't know but I I
do know this that we've talked all this
time here on Disarmament and virtually
this single treaty but that is only one
of the four major courses that we're
going to be discussing with him as we
have on all the other occasions and that
is human rights one of them and we we
have made some some headway there has
been an increase a number of the
so-called refuseniks who have been
allowed to come to this country have
been requests by us by name in which we
have named individuals that have come to
our attention and but we've got to go
further what you first suggested there
we've got to make them see that the full
human rights the rights that they agreed
to in the Helsinki pact have got to be
observed the right of people to live
where they want to live and perhaps we
can point out in our discussions that
we're not trying to interfere with their
internal workings as they have that's
the answer that they've given so many
times to us on this particular subject
but maybe we could make them see that if
their people had more of that glasnost
that he's been talking about they
wouldn't want to emigrate I'm quite sure
that there are people there who love
their country but it's the manner in
which it is being run that makes them
think they have to go someplace else but
what for example how much emigration on
the basis of religious beliefs would
there be if they would simply repeal the
restrictions that they've imposed on
various religions and admit that people
can believe in God and worship God in
their own way whatever their
denomination might be and as a matter of
fact people who have been there and
people who have a reason to know not
just tourists have said that there is a
growing desire on the part of the Soviet
people for the right to worship and
maybe in all of our meetings maybe we
could help him understand that and help
him get his glass toast part of it part
of the problem on human rights it seems
to a lot of people is that we have no
effective pressure on them no linkage
and you have been talking here again
today about the need to reduce
long-range missiles by 50 percent
plainly Gorbachev is interested in that
if you can work out an accommodation on
SDI the Strategic Defense Initiative and
work your way toward a 50% reduction in
long-range missiles would you sign that
if there were no measurable significant
progress as well in human rights by a
set standard well as I have to say I
think these things you shouldn't link
these very
programs but we will be working just as
hard regard to human rights just as hard
with regard to the regional things such
as getting out of Afghanistan and
pointing out that if he means his desire
for a better more open relationship
between the two countries then these are
things that are essential to that and
that he can come closer to what he
expresses as his desire if he meets us
halfway on these other issues mr.
president do you suspect
do you suspect that gorbachev thinks he
can do a snow job on the american people
i have to have no way of knowing that i
i have to say this in his in favor of
him on this on this thing that i have
felt that had been born and raised
within the soviet framework i have
fairly felt that he he sincerely
believes in that philosophy and also
believes a lot of the propaganda about
the Western world and about our country
that it isn't just spouting off about
shortcomings here in this country he
really believes them that's why I am
desirous of having him be able to come
to our country he has never been here
before to come to our country when it is
not a summit but when he would be free
to see what there is to see in this
country I'm a little frustrated when I
think you couldn't take him to see it
because then he'd think it was all
staged because he sincerely believes the
shortcomings that he discusses of ours
and I'm still going to hope the other
can take place because arms control is
such a crucial part of your legacy I
enough here in Washington possibly
possibly
a start agreement in Moscow if you do
not go to Moscow next summer given your
legacy will it break your heart well I
think I'd stop short of that but I'd be
very disappointed and I just don't think
it's going to happen I think that we're
going to have a meeting in Moscow and I
think there is a reasonably good chance
that we will make another gigantic step
forward in the elimination of nuclear
weapons
mr. president you said that you watched
Tom's fascinating interview with mr.
Gorbachev the other evening yes would
you assess for me your a personal
opinion of his truthfulness when he
talked about Afghanistan and the extent
and causes of anti-semitism in the
Soviet Union
well as I say I've I have to believe
that he believes their own propaganda he
grew up with us and hearing this you
believe that he believes that he has
115,000 troops in Afghanistan committing
genocide almost daily simply because
they were invited in there well you must
remember that there were other leaders
under which this happened he inherited
that and those leaders are the ones who
had created the puppet government now
whether he knows that to what extent
they did that or not I don't know but
I'm quite sure on the other hand that he
he feels comfortable with the idea that
if they left Afghanistan that there
would be a government similar to the
Eastern Bloc nations in Afghanistan not
necessarily a government that was chosen
by the people of Afghanistan well on our
side our job is to make him see that not
only must their troops leave Afghanistan
but that the people of Afghanistan just
as the people of Nicaragua must have the
right to determine the government that
they're going to have in those countries
and not simply accept the president
Stooges for the Communist world there's
a lot of talk mr. president about you
Sylla tating a Soviet withdrawal from
Afghanistan would you for example make a
commitment not to supply the
anti-government forces for a year if the
Soviets committed to get out of
Afghanistan within that period of time I
don't think we could do anything of that
kind because the puppet government that
has been less there has a military and
it would be the same as what I'm arguing
about with regard to the freedom
fighters in Nicaragua you can't suddenly
disarm them and leave them prey to the
other government and this is PR ey not
PR a why that they know the people of
Afghanistan must be assured of the right
of all of them to participate in
establishing the government they want
and that requires more than just getting
his forces out of there but I think that
I think we have to look at one other
thing here you spoke of the need for
pressure sometimes to get some of the
things we want the pressure on him is
that and on the Soviet Union is that
that great military power in some almost
eight years has been unable to overpower
the freedom fighters there they're
fighting and literally even terms and it
must be quite an embarrassment
another question sir about withdrawal
you're very up about the INF agreement
you're optimistic about the possibility
of getting a reduction in strategic
nuclear weapons the Soviets have talked
a lot about reducing their conventional
forces in Europe is it time to consider
bringing some American troops home from
Europe well not at a time when we
already are outweighed by the opposition
that would come as part of an agreement
if you were coming down to parity so
that there would not be anyone with a
with a great superiority and so no we
they would have to come down quite a
ways by themselves before
or they would reach our level I think if
you look at the figures on tanks
mechanized warfare artillery pieces they
outnumber the NATO forces by as much as
three times as many weapons in those
fields as NATO has mr. president there
is some feeling as I'm sure you're aware
that you're eager to make this Arms
Control deal in part because you need a
political victory especially after the
iran-contra affair there is some
unfinished business there are some open
questions around Washington and the
country one of the principal ones is
that if Colonel North and Admiral
Poindexter are indicted would you pardon
them that's the question that I don't
think anyone should try to answer at a
time like this
[Music]
you've tempt me into remarking something
about the iran-contra affair I refuse to
believe that accepting a request from
individuals not in the government or not
government forces of Iran to discuss the
possibilities of a future government of
Iran having a better relationship with
the United States that was a scandal for
me to accept that invitation and have
some people make contact with them and
so I but that went a lot deeper than
that mr. president was not just the
initial contacts about future relations
there was money diverted and there was
as you know I'm the one that told all of
you that there was money diverted and I
didn't know it until after that leak in
a paper in Beirut exposed the meeting we
were having we were having a covert
operation there because we didn't want
to cause the death of the people who had
wanted to talk to us president in 1980
George Bush was put under a ticket it
was a shotgun marriage is that one of
the reasons why now you can't find your
the will to embrace him to endorse his
candidacy some people say if you don't
speak out in effect it'll be the kiss of
death no I think most people would
overlook then that the president is
really
her head of the party of his party
whichever party he belongs to and
therefore while it is a party choice
that must be made as to who a nominee is
I was this had to be this way when I was
a governor I have to be this way when as
as president but I can only tell you
that whichever individual the party
chooses I will wholeheartedly support
them as obviously the best choice for
this office having viewed the candidates
of the other party but I can say this
the vice president I think has been the
finest vice president my memory in this
country he has participated in all the
major operations that I had that belief
when I came here and I'd had it when I
was a governor with the Lieutenant
Governor that isn't it isn't someone
just sitting there waiting to see if you
get up in the morning whether they've
got another job he's an executive vice
president he's a major part he's one of
only two of us that are chosen by all
the people in this country for the jobs
that we hold and so he understands that
and but I have to remain neutral until
the decision is made by the party as to
who their nominee will be mr. president
but he hasn't said what it was
don't you feel or do you feel that the
American people are entitled to know
given the fact that Vice President Bush
wants to be President what that advice
was and will you tell us well Dan George
and I not every Thursday now but for
several years every Thursday until his
campaign got underway
we have lunched together just the two of
us and we discussed as you can imagine
all the things that are going on and so
forth and he does not hesitate when I
ask to give me his opinion on something
but here again you've tempted me into
another direction because again that
misunderstanding out of the iran-contra
so-called a fair that missiles to the
Ayatollah the people that contacted us
from Iran the people we were dealing
with if the Ayatollah found out they'd
be dead before before nightfall
we weren't doing dealing at all with the
Ayatollah now I think he's as big as
Satan as he thinks I am and so and the
the weapons this came as a request from
those individuals the thing that if we
could do that first of all it would
assure them that the people they were
dealing with surreptitiously were
speaking for the government had some
standing here in our in our country and
also they if they could provide those to
them to the military not to the
Revolutionary Guard to the military it
would give them the prestige the thing
that's been overlooked in all of the
examinations was that when all of that
was happening virtually every day you
and others in the press were commenting
on how long the Ayatollah was going to
live it sounded as if he wouldn't be
around by the next week and there was
factionalism rising in Iran as to who
then was going to take over well this is
what this operation was about these
people were an element that wanted to
have the kind of government that we once
were closely allowed to in Iran and this
was why we started doing business with
them now when they asked for that token
shipment of arms to verify and so forth
our credentials we turned around and
cited that we didn't go along with
governments that supported terrorism
they made it pretty plain they didn't
support terrorism either and we then or
I said well alright let them prove their
good faith if we do this in using
whatever influence they have to see if
they could get those terrorists to
release our hostages never at any time
that we view this as trading weapons for
hostages because we weren't doing
anything for the kidnappers and we
but we knew someone that ever delete
might have an open an ability to open
the door and they did get two of them
out and when the news broke that blow
the whole thing over we were expecting
two more in the next 48 hours are still
respectfully sort of but now your
question again I want to give way to
Peter let me just finish then I will
wake you but what you said about George
I don't think it would be right for me
to to discuss that what his position was
and things but there was a disagreement
among our people that they and that not
that I was trading arms for hostages but
that that if it became known what we
were doing it would be viewed as that
and those individuals were absolutely
right because everybody has viewed it
since and misconstrued it as that we
were trading as a ransom hostages for
I'd love to talk movie about it but
we're short anytime and I may have
waited my last question I think a lot of
people mind series about the dollar you
said not to very long ago that the
dollar had fallen as far as you thought
it should go and it continued to fall
what would you like to say or do now to
stop it from falling further well we
said I don't think we've I don't think
we've done anything to contribute to its
falling further it isn't a case of where
sometimes in the past when it was
certainly overpriced that we have made
efforts to balance it up I've often
wondered sometimes they keep talking
about talking about the government or
the dollar falling or is it that maybe
some of those foreign currencies that
were way below value were have come up
to where they properly should be but it
is fluctuating and we're interested in
stabilization and I think I think that
some of the things we've done have are
leading and have led to that a sudden
surge of cutting interest rates in some
of our trading allies abroad did have
the effect again of making the dollar
fall but that was their doing now ours
mr. president
covered some ground more to cover we'd
like to thank you very much for joining
us thank you thank you you said some
people opposed the action with Iran
because of the interpretation our
hostages was George Bush one of those
who spoke out against it in reference to
what Dan asked you well I don't think
out of the circumstances that I should